Loops.
What are Loops , how do we use them , and the types of loops.
Let's discuss 


* what is loop
Loop is a mechanism that enables you to execute the same sequence of statement 
repeatedly until the condition is met.

The statement inside a loop sometimes called ITERATION Statements.

Java Only support:
1. While 
2. DO While
3. For
4. Switch 

Let's Start with " Switch ";
* A switch loop in Java allows a Variable or a expression to be tested against 
    the list of value or multiple matches.

* Substitute. A long series of Nested-If-Else Statement 

* The condition in the switch can be a variable or a expression 
* You can have end number of cases in switch statement.
* It checks all the cases line by line. and it will only terminate when the case
    is matched. it will break out the switch.
* Not every cases need to contain the break statement, if no break appears the flow 
of code will continue until a break is reached.
*A switch statement can have an optional default case. The default case 
can be used for performing a task when none of the cases is true. No break is 
needed in the default case.


* Basics of loops
There are two essential elements to a loop
1. The Block of statement to be executed repeatedly
2. A condition that determines when to start, continue or stop the loop

Every loop construct  follows a standard Algorithm 
1. Initialize the value
2. Evaluate condition 
3. increment or decrement 


* The " FOR "  Loop
A compact form of while loop
The FOR loop combines all following the three ingredient for a loop in one 
statement 
* Initialize - condition checking - increment or decrement
 
Syntax
 for (int num = 0; num <= 10 ; num++)


* The  " While Loop "
Known as repetitive loop or iteration loop
Executed as long as the test condition evaluates to  true 

Syntax
while (test condition)
{
    statement 1;
    statement n;
}

In case of  more than one statement in the loop, use curly braces. Otherwise ,
only first statement is executed, the rest of the statement ill be ignored.
 

* The " DO While Loop "
Same as the while loop with the following difference
In WHile loop the test condition is evaluate first, followed by the execution of 
the statement

In DO While loop , the test condition is evaluate after the statements in the loop 
has been executed once.
The statement are executed at least once, even if the test condition result is false

* Syntax 

do 
{
    statement 1;
    statement n;
}
while (test condition);

this loop can be used a lot in a situation where you are supposed to keep a program 
running based on user's input.
for example. do you want to enter more data or  terminate the program. (y/n)